Style guide and updates (#9678)
MystenLabs/sui: doc/src/build/move/index.md

title: Write Smart Contracts with Sui Move
---

> Welcome to the Sui tutorial for building smart contracts with the [Move](https://github.com/MystenLabs/awesome-move) language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to the Sui tutorial for building smart contracts with [Sui Move](../learn/why-move).
```

> This tutorial provides a brief explanation of the Move language and includes concrete examples to demonstrate how you can use Move in Sui.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial provides a brief explanation of the Sui Move language, and includes concrete examples to demonstrate how you can use Move in Sui.
```

> ## About Move

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## About Sui Move
```

> Move is an open source language for writing safe smart contracts. It was originally developed at Facebook to power the [Diem](https://github.com/diem/diem) blockchain. However, Move was designed as a platform-agnostic language to enable common libraries, tooling, and developer communities across

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sui Move is an open source language for writing safe smart contracts. It was originally developed at Facebook to power the [Diem](https://github.com/diem/diem) blockchain. However, Sui Move was designed as a platform-agnostic language to enable common libraries, tooling, and developer communities across
```

> blockchains with vastly different data and execution models. [Sui](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/README.md), [0L](https://github.com/0LNetworkCommunity/libra), and [Starcoin](https://github.com/starcoinorg/starcoin) are using Move, and there are also plans to integrate the language in several upcoming and existing platforms, like [Celo](https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20210921006104/en/Celo-Sets-Sights-On-Becoming-Fastest-EVM-Chain-Through-Collaboration-With-Mysten-Labs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
blockchains with vastly different data and execution models.
```

> The Move language documentation is available in the [Move GitHub](https://github.com/move-language/move) repository and includes a [tutorial](https://github.com/move-language/move/blob/main/language/documentation/tutorial/README.md) and a [book](https://github.com/move-language/move/blob/main/language/documentation/book/src/SUMMARY.md) describing language features in detail. These are invaluable resources to deepen your understanding of the Move language but not strict prerequisites to following the Sui tutorial, which we strived to make self-contained. Further, Sui does differ in some ways from Move, which we explore here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The documentation for the original Move language is available in the [Move GitHub](https://github.com/move-language/move) repository and includes a [tutorial](https://github.com/move-language/move/blob/main/language/documentation/tutorial/README.md) and a [book](https://github.com/move-language/move/blob/main/language/documentation/book/src/SUMMARY.md) describing language features in detail. These are invaluable resources to deepen your understanding of the Move language but not strict prerequisites to following the Sui tutorial, which we strived to make self-contained. Further, Sui Move differs in some ways from Move, which we explore here.
```

> In Sui, Move is used to define, create, and manage programmable [Sui objects](../objects.md) representing user-level assets. Sui's object system is implemented by adding new functionality to Move while also imposing additional restrictions, creating a dialect of Move (a.k.a. *Sui Move*) that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use Sui Move to define, create, and manage programmable [Sui objects](../objects.md) representing user-level assets. Sui's object system is implemented by adding new functionality to Move while also imposing additional restrictions, creating a dialect of Move (a.k.a. *Sui Move*) that
```

makes certain parts of the original Move documentation not applicable to smart contract development in Sui. Consequently, it's best to follow this tutorial and the relevant Move documentation links within.

Before looking at the Move code included with Sui, let's talk briefly about Move code organization, which applies both to code included with
Sui and the custom code developers write.

## Move code organization

The main unit of Move code organization (and distribution) is a _package_. A package consists of a set of _modules_ defined in separate
files with the `.move` extension. These files include Move functions and type definitions. A package must include the `Move.toml` manifest file

> describing package configuration, such as package metadata and package dependencies. See [Move.toml](manifest.md) for more information about package manifest files. Packages also include an auto-generated `Move.lock` file. The `Move.lock` file is similar in format to the package manifest, but is not meant for users to edit directly. See [Move.lock](lock-file.md) for more information about the lock file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
describing package configuration, such as package metadata and package dependencies. See [Move.toml](manifest.md) for more information about package manifest files in Sui Move. Packages also include an auto-generated `Move.lock` file. The `Move.lock` file is similar in format to the package manifest, but is not meant for users to edit directly. See [Move.lock](lock-file.md) for more information about the lock file in Sui Move. 
```

The minimal package source directory structure looks as follows and contains the manifest file, the lock file, and the `sources` subdirectory where one or more module files are located:

```
my_move_package
├── Move.lock
├── Move.toml
├── sources
    ├── my_module.move
```

> See [Package Layout and Manifest Syntax](https://github.com/move-language/move/blob/main/language/documentation/book/src/packages.md#package-layout-and-manifest-syntax) for more information on package layout.

Reviewer: wondering whether we should update all links from Move repo to Sui docs, such as https://docs.sui.io/devnet/build/move/write-package for package info here.

> It's now time to look at some Move code! You can either keep reading for an introductory description of the main Move language constructs or you can jump straight into the code by [writing a simple Move package](write-package.md), and checking out additional code [examples](../../explore/examples.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's now time to look at some Sui Move code. You can either keep reading for an introductory description of the main Sui Move language constructs or you can jump straight into the code by [writing a simple Sui Move package](write-package.md), and checking out additional code [examples](../../explore/examples.md).
```

## First look at Move source code

> The Sui platform includes _framework_ Move code that you need to bootstrap Sui operations. In particular, Sui supports multiple user-defined coin types, which are custom assets the Move language defines. Sui framework code contains the `Coin` module supporting creation and management of custom coins. The `Coin` module is located in the [coin.move](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/crates/sui-framework/sources/coin.move)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sui platform includes the Sui Framework, which includes the core on-chain libraries that Sui Move developers  need to bootstrap Sui operations. In particular, Sui supports multiple user-defined coin types, which are custom assets the Sui Move language defines. Sui Framework code contains the `Coin` module supporting creation and management of custom coins. The `Coin` module is located in the [coin.move](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/crates/sui-framework/sources/coin.move)
```

> file. As you might expect, the manifest file describing how to build the package containing the `Coin` module is located in the corresponding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
file. The manifest file describing how to build the package containing the `Coin` module is located in the corresponding
```

}
```

> Don't worry about the rest of the module contents for now; you can read more about [modules](https://github.com/move-language/move/blob/main/language/documentation/book/src/modules-and-scripts.md#modules) in the Move book later.

Reviewer: is there a Sui Move target for this link?

> > **Important:** In Sui Move, package names are always in CamelCase, while the address alias is lowercase, for example `sui = 0x2` and `std = 0x1`. So: `Sui` = name of the imported package (Sui = sui framework), `sui` = address alias of `0x2`, `sui::sui` = module sui under the address `0x2`, and `sui::sui::SUI` = type in the module above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:** In Sui Move, package names are always in CamelCase, while the address alias is lowercase, for example `sui = 0x2` and `std = 0x1`. So: `Sui` = name of the imported package (Sui = sui framework), `sui` = address alias of `0x2`, `sui::sui` = module sui under the address `0x2`, and `sui::sui::SUI` = type in the module above.
```

> As you can see, when defining a module we specify the module name (`coin`), preceded by the name of the package where this module resides (`sui`). The combination of the package name and the module name uniquely identifies a module in Move source code. The package name is globally unique, but different packages can contain modules with the same name. While module names are not unique, when they combine with their unique package name they result in a unique combination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you define a module, specify the module name (`coin`) preceded by the name of the package where this module resides (`sui`). The combination of the package name and the module name uniquely identifies a module in Sui Move source code. The package name is globally unique, but different packages can contain modules with the same name. While module names are not unique, when they combine with their unique package name they result in a unique combination.
```

For example, if you have a published package "P", you cannot publish an entirely different package also named "P". At the same time you can have module "P1::M1", "P2::M1", and "P1::M2" but not another, say, "P1::M1" in the system at the same time.

While you can't name different packages the same, you can upgrade a package on chain with updated code using the same package name.  

> In addition to having a presence at the source code level, as discussed in [Move code organization](#move-code-organization), a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to having a presence at the source code level, as discussed in [Sui Move code organization](#move-code-organization), a
```

> ### Move structs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sui Move structs
```

}
```

> Move's struct type is similar to struct types defined in other programming languages, such as C or C++, and contains a name and a set of typed fields. In particular, struct fields can be of a primitive type, such as an integer type, or of a struct type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sui Move's struct type is similar to struct types defined in other programming languages, such as C or C++, and contains a name and a set of typed fields. In particular, struct fields can be of a primitive type, such as an integer type, or of a struct type.
```

You can read more about Move [primitive types](https://github.com/move-language/move/blob/main/language/documentation/book/src/SUMMARY.md#primitive-types) and [structs](https://github.com/move-language/move/blob/main/language/documentation/book/src/structs-and-resources.md) in the Move book.

> For a Move struct type to define a Sui object type, such as `Coin`, its first field must be `id: UID`, which is a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a Sui Move struct type to define a Sui object type, such as `Coin`, its first field must be `id: UID`, which is a
```

You can read more about Move [references](https://github.com/move-language/move/blob/main/language/documentation/book/src/references.md#references) in the Move book.

The [Write a Sui Move Package](write-package.md) topic shows how to call Move functions from other functions and how
to define the new ones.

The Sui dialect of the Move language also defines _entry functions_. These must satisfy a certain set of properties and you can call them directly from Sui (e.g., from a Sui application written in a different language).

#### Entry functions

One of the basic operations in Sui is a gas object transfer between [addresses](https://github.com/move-language/move/blob/main/language/documentation/book/src/address.md) representing individual users. The gas object transfer implementation in the [SUI module](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/crates/sui-framework/sources/sui.move) is also an example of the use of an entry function:

```rust
public entry fun transfer(c: coin::Coin<SUI>, recipient: address, _ctx: &mut TxContext) {
    ...
}
```

> Don't worry about the function body for now - because the function is part of Sui framework, you can trust

Reviewer: seems superfluous and doesn't help with understanding
